Add KEB usage tutorials (#1119)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/kyma-environment-broker/08-03-keb-operation-state.md

> ---

Reviewer: Same as above

title: Check Kyma Environment Broker operation status
type: Tutorials
---

This tutorial shows how to check the Kyma Environment Broker operation status for the provisioning and deprovisioning operations.

## Steps

> 1. Export operation ID obtained through [provisioning](./08-01-provisioning-kyma-environment.md) or [deprovisioning](./08-02-deprovisioning-kyma-environment.md) as environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Export the operation ID that you obtained during [provisioning](./08-01-provisioning-kyma-environment.md) or [deprovisioning](./08-02-deprovisioning-kyma-environment.md) as an environment variable:
```

```bash
export OPERATION_ID={OBTAINED_OPERATION_ID}
```

> > **NOTE:** Make sure to also have environment variables BROKER_URL and INSTANCE_ID exported before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Ensure that BROKER_URL and INSTANCE_ID environment variables are exported as well before you proceed.
```

> > **NOTE:** Ensure that BROKER_URL and INSTANCE_ID environment variables are exported as well before you proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Ensure that the BROKER_URL and INSTANCE_ID environment variables are exported as well before you proceed.
```

> 2. Make a call to the Kyma Environment Broker with a proper **Authorization** request header (see [here](./03-05-authorization.md)) to verify that provisioning/deprovisioning succeeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Make a call to the Kyma Environment Broker with a proper **Authorization** [request header](./03-05-authorization.md) to verify that provisioning/deprovisioning succeeded.
```

```bash
curl --request GET "https://$BROKER_URL/v2/service_instances/$INSTANCE_ID/last_operation?operation=$OPERATION_ID&service_id=47c9dcbf-ff30-448e-ab36-d3bad66ba281&plan_id=4deee563-e5ec-4731-b9b1-53b42d855f0c" \
--header 'X-Broker-API-Version: 2.13' \
--header "$AUTHORIZATION_HEADER"
```

> A successful call returns the operation state and description:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful call returns the operation status and description:
```
